# Escape from Earth!
#### Video Demo:  <https://youtu.be/ifahCGQOVRU>
### Description:
#### I have played almost every escape room game on the google play store. While I was puzzling my way out of whatever fantasy conundrum the devs placed the character within, I was escaping the weight and responsibility of the real world, albeit only for a brief but necessary time. Part of the reason I wanted to get into computer science, other than as an essential tool for STEM majors in today's world, is to add to that collection of games that I grew up on. My final project attempts to do just this: I have created a website that requires a code to enter. There are several buttons, links, and other hidden features which user may explore to determine the CODE. I have also included atmospheric background music and several choice visuals to create an old-time code aesthetic, purposefully sticking to the limits of HTML and CSS instead of importing other fancier, more futuristic libraries.

#### Upon entering the website, new users read about the game and the scenario (info.html). This information may be accessed at all times during game play by clicking the button in top right corner. Not only does this page create context for the game, it also explains how to use the site and provides some direction to the user so that they understand what they need to do in order to "beat" the game.

#### Due to the nature of puzzle games, there are several files which seem redundant, but which create a confusing and maze-like web interface. This setup adds an element of difficulty and memory which may require users to keep a paper and pencil close at hand. The first letter can be found through a series of button clicks (red or blue) which eventually lead to an end page with the letter and a return to home button. Each of these pages is identical, except for which button should be pressed to move on (p2.html through p9_last.html). If you click on "1. Read Me", you are redirected to a page (hint.html) which provides information about a morse code message in the top left corner of the home page. This message relays which red and blue button should be pressed on each page to get to the first letter.

#### For the second letter, an input field reading "Type Password" must be completed. There are hints for this puzzle on the photograph of Reagan's desk, which may be found at the bottom of the webpage. Typing #11348 and pressing enter inside of the input box redirects you to "enter_password.html" wherein the second letter can be found. There is a button to return home.

#### The third letter requires a little more effort. Upon clicking the button titled "3. Puzzle 2", the user is redirected to "puzzle2.html", a page with a photograph of the Louvre using the img src tag and several input fields requiring the name, coordinates (in a specific format), and the date the Louvre opened. All of this information can be found through Google, as I did to create the puzzle, and once all of the correct information is typed and the submit button is pressed, the user is redirected to "puzzle2_p2.html" where the third letter is displayed and a button to return home is present.

#### For the fourth letter, the user must read the words present on the homepage. Everything that is colored gray (as opposed to white) spells out a secret message which the insurgents planted to warn Reagan about their activities. This message must be input into the box present when the fourth button is clicked (ransom.html) in order to be redirected to the fourth letter (ransom2.html).

#### Lastly, there is a code on Reagan's chest in the photograph of him which leads to the solution for the fifth letter. Clicking on 5. Slider leads to "slider.html" where four sliders may be observed. These sliders must be moved to 3, 4, 9, and 6 respectively in order to see the fifth and final character of the code. I wanted to use sliders to add some variety to the puzzle inputs, but this design choice gave me a lot of trouble early on. Still, I persevered! And the slider puzzle works.

#### This code, PLXAT, may then be input into the box which states "Enter the CODE" (CODE is in all caps to signify that the code must be put into the box in all caps as well). Upon pressing enter, the user is the redirected to "security_questions.html" where they have to answer some questions based on the information they have read from the images and text on the website. If these answers are correctly given, the user has successfully hacked into the console, and the game is over! This part of the game also gave me a lot of trouble and I ended up using javascript to override default form submission behavior and redirect to the page I needed. There may be some redundancy between my app.py and index or security_questions page here when checking the answers because of this decision.

#### As I stated earlier, I wanted the general design aesthetic for the website to look like a cryptic, DIY html website from the 80s or 90s, so I left many of the colors as default RGB tones and I used yellow text. I also wanted to create some kind of page formatting, and I debated between centering everything vs. left justifying the buttons, and ended up on a combination with the red and blue buttons on either side with the others centered below the final CODE input box. To add an additional layer of escape room ambiance, I included background music for the homepage and images to add to the ambiance and story-element of the game.

#### That's all for now. Enjoy!
